Rework the Concepts chapter (#48)
neoforged/Documentation: docs/concepts/registries.md

:::

`DeferredHolder<R, T extends R>` is a subclass of `Supplier<T>`. To get our registered object when we need it, we can call `DeferredHolder#get()`. The fact that `DeferredHolder` extends `Supplier` also allows us to use `Supplier` as the type of our field. That way, the above code block becomes the following:

```java
public static final Supplier<Block> EXAMPLE_BLOCK = BLOCKS.register(
        "example_block" // Our registry name.
        () -> new Block(...) // A supplier of the object we want to register.
);
```

Be aware that a few places explicitly require a `DeferredHolder` and will not just accept any `Supplier`. If you need a `DeferredHolder`, it is best to change the type of your `Supplier` back to `DeferredHolder`.

Finally, since the entire system is a wrapper around registry events, we need to tell the `DeferredRegister` to attach itself to the registry events as needed:

```java
//This is our mod constructor
public ExampleMod(IModEventBus bus) {

>     ExampleBlocksClass.BLOCKS.register(bus);

Reviewer: Highlight this line.

                registry.register(new ResourceLocation(MODID, "example_block_2"), new Block(...));
                registry.register(new ResourceLocation(MODID, "example_block_3"), new Block(...));
            }
    );
}
```

## Custom Registries

Custom registries allow you to specify additional systems that addon mods for your mod may want to plug into. For example, if your mod were to add spells, you could make the spells a registry and thus allow other mods to add spells to your mod, without you having to do anything else. It also allows you to do some things, such as syncing the entries, automatically.

Let's start by creating the [registry key][resourcekey] and the registry itself:

```java
// We use spells as an example for the registry here, without any details about what a spell actually is (as it doesn't matter).
// Of course, all mentions of spells can and should be replaced with whatever your registry actually is.
public static final ResourceKey<Registry<Spell>> SPELL_REGISTRY_KEY = ResourceKey.createRegistryKey(new ResourceLocation("yourmodid", "spells"));
public static final Registry<YourRegistryContents> SPELL_REGISTRY = new RegistryBuilder<>(SPELL_REGISTRY_KEY)

>         // If you want the registry to sync its values.

Reviewer: This is misleading. The sync option syncs registry IDs and is also discouraged as you should usually send actual ids instead of int ids. Should also note that synced registries will prevent clients from connecting to servers if they're missing entries present on the other side.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// If you want the registry to sync its registry entry IDs for use in networking
```

        .sync(true)

>         // The default key. Similar to minecraft:air for blocks.

Reviewer: It's optional.

### `Holder`s

As mentioned before, (normal) registries rely on `DeferredHolder`s, which are a special kind of `Holder`. A `Holder` vaguely resembles a `Pair<K, V>` that either starts with a key and has a value bound later, or starts with a value and may have a key bound later. Datapack registries extensively rely on (non-deferred) `Holder`s to reference registry elements of other registries. For example, `Biome`s refer to `Holder<PlacedFeature>`s, and `PlacedFeature`s refer to `Holder<ConfiguredFeature>`s.

During data generation, we can use `RegistryOps#registry` to get a registry, and `Registry#getOrCreateHolderOrThrow()` to produce key-only reference holders (we only need the key in this case, since holder codecs only encode keys when using a `RegistryOps` in order to prevent circular dependencies).

### `JsonCodecProvider`

> NeoForge provides a data provider for datapack registry elements that, given a registry key and a map of objects to generate, generates all JSON files for the objects in the map.

Reviewer: The correct way of generating dp entries is through the use of `Bootstrap` and the registry access CF. Check the neo test mod for damage types as a reference.

Reviewer: https://github.com/neoforged/NeoForge/blob/5e1e9fad1f16b73d716b5d51a6a653594150c987/tests/src/main/java/net/neoforged/neoforge/debug/damagesource/DamageTypeTests.java#L80-L89

Reviewer: We already have docs for this actually: https://docs.neoforged.net/docs/datagen/server/datapackregistries  
Though they may also need a bit of updating, and it has a broken admonition.

```java
new RegistrySetBuilder()
    .add(Registries.CONFIGURED_FEATURE, bootstrap -> {
    // Register configured features through the bootstrap context (see below)
    })
    .add(Registries.PLACED_FEATURE, bootstrap -> {
    // Register placed features through the bootstrap context (see below)
    });
```

The `bootstrap` lambda parameter is what we actually use to register our objects. It has the type `BootstrapContext`. To register an object, we call `#register` on it, like so:

```java
// The resource key of our object.
public static final ResourceKey<ConfiguredFeature<?, ?>> EXAMPLE_CONFIGURED_FEATURE = ResourceKey.create(
    Registries.CONFIGURED_FEATURE,
    new ResourceLocation(MOD_ID, "example_configured_feature")
);

new RegistrySetBuilder()
    .add(Registries.CONFIGURED_FEATURE, bootstrap -> {
        bootstrap.register(
            // The resource key of our configured feature.
            EXAMPLE_CONFIGURED_FEATURE,
            // The actual configured feature.
            new ConfiguredFeature<>(Feature.ORE, new OreConfiguration(...))
        );
    })
    .add(Registries.PLACED_FEATURE, bootstrap -> {
    // ...
    });
```

> The `BootstrapContext` can also be used to lookup entries from another registry if needed:

Reviewer 2: Very scremworthy. Some good news at least is that they renamed the class in 24w04a to fix that typo.

To add to this: this should probably come with a note of some kind, to tell the reader/editor that this _isn't_ a typo in our docs and it is the actual name of the class (until 24w04a).

> The `BootstrapContext` can also be used to lookup entries from another registry if needed:

Author: Honestly, given that vanilla fixed this in the 1.20.5 snapshots, I'm tempted to just leave it there.

        // The registry we want to use.
        // Minecraft's registries can be found in BuiltInRegistries, NeoForge's registries can be found in NeoForgeRegistries.
        // Mods may also add their own registries, refer to the individual mod's documentation or source code for where to find them.
        BuiltInRegistries.BLOCKS,
        // Our mod id.
        ExampleMod.MOD_ID
);
```

We can then add our registry entries as static final fields (see [the article on Blocks][block] for what parameters to add in `new Block()`):

```java
public static final DeferredHolder<Block, Block> EXAMPLE_BLOCK = BLOCKS.register(
        "example_block" // Our registry name.
        () -> new Block(...) // A supplier of the object we want to register.
);
```

The class `DeferredHolder<R, T extends R>` holds our object. The type parameter `R` is the type of the registry we are registering to (in our case `Block`). The type parameter `T` is the type of our supplier. Since we directly register a `Block` in this example, we provide `Block` as the second parameter. If we were to register an object of a subclass of `Block`, for example `SlabBlock`, we would provide `SlabBlock` here instead.

> :::note

Author: It's not really error-prone though? As long as all the classes are classloaded during registration, there's usually no problem. (Unless you are referring to something different, in which case, please elaborate)

> :::note

Reviewer 3: It's error-prone in that people constantly forget to classload the class holding the registry entries at an adequate time and then get a crash when they access one of their objects during late startup or gameplay

> :::note

Author: Alright, gonna remove that recommendation.

:::

:::danger
Query operations are only safe to use after registration has finished. **DO NOT QUERY REGISTRIES WHILE REGISTRATION IS STILL ONGOING!**
:::

## Custom Registries

Custom registries allow you to specify additional systems that addon mods for your mod may want to plug into. For example, if your mod were to add spells, you could make the spells a registry and thus allow other mods to add spells to your mod, without you having to do anything else. It also allows you to do some things, such as syncing the entries, automatically.

Let's start by creating the [registry key][resourcekey] and the registry itself:

```java
// We use spells as an example for the registry here, without any details about what a spell actually is (as it doesn't matter).
// Of course, all mentions of spells can and should be replaced with whatever your registry actually is.
public static final ResourceKey<Registry<Spell>> SPELL_REGISTRY_KEY = ResourceKey.createRegistryKey(new ResourceLocation("yourmodid", "spells"));

> public static final Registry<YourRegistryContents> SPELL_REGISTRY = new RegistryBuilder<>(SPELL_REGISTRY_KEY)

Reviewer 4: This can be simplified with `DeferredRegister#makeRegistry`.

- Minecraft's datapack registries use the format `data/yourmodid/registrypath` (for example `data/yourmodid/worldgen/biomes`, where `worldgen/biomes` is the registry path).
- All other datapack registries (NeoForge or modded) use the format `data/yourmodid/registrynamespace/registrypath` (for example `data/yourmodid/neoforge/loot_modifiers`, where `neoforge` is the registry namespace and `loot_modifiers` is the registry path).

Datapack registries can be obtained from a `RegistryAccess`. This `RegistryAccess` can be retrieved by calling `ServerLevel#registryAccess()` if on the server, or `Minecraft.getInstance().connection#registryAccess()` if on the client (the latter only works if you are actually connected to a world, as otherwise the connection will be null). The result of these calls can then be used like any other registry to get specific elements, or to iterate over the contents.

### Custom Datapack Registries

> Custom datapack registries are created through `RegistryBuilder` like all other registries, but are registered to `DataPackRegistryEvent.NewRegistry` instead of `NewRegistryEvent`. Reiterating the spells example from before, registering our spell registry as a datapack registry looks something like this:

Author: Ah, I was mixing regular with DP registries. Adjusting.
